
John 11  In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. 

John 12  The same was in the beginning with God. 

John 13  All things were made by him and without him was not any thing made that was made. 

John 14  In him was life and the life was the light of men. 

John 15  And the light shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehended it not. 

John 16  There was a man sent from God, whose name was John. 

John 17  The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that all men through him might believe. 

John 18  He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that Light. 

John 19  That was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. 

John 110  He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. 

John 111  He came unto his own, and his own received him not. 

John 112  But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name 

John 113  Which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. 

John 114  And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth. 

John 115  John bare witness of him, and cried, saying, This was he of whom I spake, He that cometh after me is preferred before me for he was before me. 

John 116  And of his fulness have all we received, and grace for grace. 

John 117  For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. 

John 118  No man hath seen God at any time, the only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. 

John 119  And this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou? 

John 120  And he confessed, and denied not but confessed, I am not the Christ. 

John 121  And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias? And he saith, I am not. Art thou that prophet? And he answered, No. 

John 122  Then said they unto him, Who art thou? that we may give an answer to them that sent us. What sayest thou of thyself? 

John 123  He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Esaias. 

John 124  And they which were sent were of the Pharisees. 

John 125  And they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then, if thou be not that Christ, nor Elias, neither that prophet? 

John 126  John answered them, saying, I baptize with water but there standeth one among you, whom ye know not 

John 127  He it is, who coming after me is preferred before me, whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose. 

John 128  These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan, where John was baptizing. 

John 129  The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. 

John 130  This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is preferred before me for he was before me. 

John 131  And I knew him not but that he should be made manifest to Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water. 

John 132  And John bare record, saying, I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him. 

John 133  And I knew him not but he that sent me to baptize with water, the same said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost. 

John 134  And I saw, and bare record that this is the Son of God. 

John 135  Again the next day after John stood, and two of his disciples 

John 136  And looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith, Behold the Lamb of God! 

John 137  And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus. 

John 138  Then Jesus turned, and saw them following, and saith unto them, What seek ye? They said unto him, Rabbi, (which is to say, being interpreted, Master,) where dwellest thou? 

John 139  He saith unto them, Come and see. They came and saw where he dwelt, and abode with him that day for it was about the tenth hour. 

John 140  One of the two which heard John speak, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. 

John 141  He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messias, which is, being interpreted, the Christ. 

John 142  And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him, he said, Thou art Simon the son of Jona thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation, A stone. 

John 143  The day following Jesus would go forth into Galilee, and findeth Philip, and saith unto him, Follow me. 

John 144  Now Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter. 

John 145  Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith unto him, We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. 

John 146  And Nathanael said unto him, Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth? Philip saith unto him, Come and see. 

John 147  Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and saith of him, Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile! 

John 148  Nathanael saith unto him, Whence knowest thou me? Jesus answered and said unto him, Before that Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee. 

John 149  Nathanael answered and saith unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God thou art the King of Israel. 

John 150  Jesus answered and said unto him, Because I said unto thee, I saw thee under the fig tree, believest thou? thou shalt see greater things than these. 

John 151  And he saith unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Hereafter ye shall see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of man. 

John 101  Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold, but climbeth up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber. 

John 102  But he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. 

John 103  To him the porter openeth and the sheep hear his voice and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out. 

John 104  And when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him for they know his voice. 

John 105  And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him for they know not the voice of strangers. 

John 106  This parable spake Jesus unto them but they understood not what things they were which he spake unto them. 

John 107  Then said Jesus unto them again, Verily, verily, I say unto you, I am the door of the sheep. 

John 108  All that ever came before me are thieves and robbers but the sheep did not hear them. 

John 109  I am the door by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture. 

John 1010  The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly. 

John 1011  I am the good shepherd the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. 

John 1012  But he that is an hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep. 

John 1013  The hireling fleeth, because he is an hireling, and careth not for the sheep. 

John 1014  I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine. 

John 1015  As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father and I lay down my life for the sheep. 

John 1016  And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd. 

John 1017  Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I might take it again. 

John 1018  No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father. 

John 1019  There was a division therefore again among the Jews for these sayings. 

John 1020  And many of them said, He hath a devil, and is mad why hear ye him? 

John 1021  Others said, These are not the words of him that hath a devil. Can a devil open the eyes of the blind? 

John 1022  And it was at Jerusalem the feast of the dedication, and it was winter. 

John 1023  And Jesus walked in the temple in Solomon's porch. 

John 1024  Then came the Jews round about him, and said unto him, How long dost thou make us to doubt? If thou be the Christ, tell us plainly. 

John 1025  Jesus answered them, I told you, and ye believed not the works that I do in my Father's name, they bear witness of me. 

John 1026  But ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep, as I said unto you. 

John 1027  My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me 

John 1028  And I give unto them eternal life and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. 

John 1029  My Father, which gave them me, is greater than all and no man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand. 

John 1030  I and my Father are one. 

John 1031  Then the Jews took up stones again to stone him. 

John 1032  Jesus answered them, Many good works have I shewed you from my Father for which of those works do ye stone me? 

John 1033  The Jews answered him, saying, For a good work we stone thee not but for blasphemy and because that thou, being a man, makest thyself God. 

John 1034  Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said, Ye are gods? 

John 1035  If he called them gods, unto whom the word of God came, and the scripture cannot be broken 

John 1036  Say ye of him, whom the Father hath sanctified, and sent into the world, Thou blasphemest because I said, I am the Son of God? 

John 1037  If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not. 

John 1038  But if I do, though ye believe not me, believe the works that ye may know, and believe, that the Father is in me, and I in him. 

John 1039  Therefore they sought again to take him but he escaped out of their hand, 

John 1040  And went away again beyond Jordan into the place where John at first baptized and there he abode. 

John 1041  And many resorted unto him, and said, John did no miracle but all things that John spake of this man were true. 

John 1042  And many believed on him there. 

John 111  Now a certain man was sick, named Lazarus, of Bethany, the town of Mary and her sister Martha. 

John 112  (It was that Mary which anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.) 

John 113  Therefore his sisters sent unto him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick. 

John 114  When Jesus heard that, he said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified thereby. 

John 115  Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus. 

John 116  When he had heard therefore that he was sick, he abode two days still in the same place where he was. 

John 117  Then after that saith he to his disciples, Let us go into Judaea again. 

John 118  His disciples say unto him, Master, the Jews of late sought to stone thee and goest thou thither again? 

John 119  Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If any man walk in the day, he stumbleth not, because he seeth the light of this world. 

John 1110  But if a man walk in the night, he stumbleth, because there is no light in him. 

John 1111  These things said he and after that he saith unto them, Our friend Lazarus sleepeth but I go, that I may awake him out of sleep. 

John 1112  Then said his disciples, Lord, if he sleep, he shall do well. 

John 1113  Howbeit Jesus spake of his death but they thought that he had spoken of taking of rest in sleep. 

John 1114  Then said Jesus unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead. 

John 1115  And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, to the intent ye may believe nevertheless let us go unto him. 

John 1116  Then said Thomas, which is called Didymus, unto his fellowdisciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him. 

John 1117  Then when Jesus came, he found that he had lain in the grave four days already. 

John 1118  Now Bethany was nigh unto Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off 

John 1119  And many of the Jews came to Martha and Mary, to comfort them concerning their brother. 

John 1120  Then Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him but Mary sat still in the house. 

John 1121  Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. 

John 1122  But I know, that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee. 

John 1123  Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother shall rise again. 

John 1124  Martha saith unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day. 

John 1125  Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live 

John 1126  And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou this? 

John 1127  She saith unto him, Yea, Lord I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the world. 

John 1128  And when she had so said, she went her way, and called Mary her sister secretly, saying, The Master is come, and calleth for thee. 

John 1129  As soon as she heard that, she arose quickly, and came unto him. 

John 1130  Now Jesus was not yet come into the town, but was in that place where Martha met him. 

John 1131  The Jews then which were with her in the house, and comforted her, when they saw Mary, that she rose up hastily and went out, followed her, saying, She goeth unto the grave to weep there. 

John 1132  Then when Mary was come where Jesus was, and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. 

John 1133  When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping which came with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled. 

John 1134  And said, Where have ye laid him? They said unto him, Lord, come and see. 

John 1135  Jesus wept. 

John 1136  Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him! 

John 1137  And some of them said, Could not this man, which opened the eyes of the blind, have caused that even this man should not have died? 

John 1138  Jesus therefore again groaning in himself cometh to the grave. It was a cave, and a stone lay upon it. 

John 1139  Jesus said, Take ye away the stone. Martha, the sister of him that was dead, saith unto him, Lord, by this time he stinketh for he hath been dead four days. 

John 1140  Jesus saith unto her, Said I not unto thee, that, if thou wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God? 

John 1141  Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid. And Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me. 

John 1142  And I knew that thou hearest me always but because of the people which stand by I said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me. 

John 1143  And when he thus had spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth. 

John 1144  And he that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot with graveclothes and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith unto them, Loose him, and let him go. 

John 1145  Then many of the Jews which came to Mary, and had seen the things which Jesus did, believed on him. 

John 1146  But some of them went their ways to the Pharisees, and told them what things Jesus had done. 

John 1147  Then gathered the chief priests and the Pharisees a council, and said, What do we? for this man doeth many miracles. 

John 1148  If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him and the Romans shall come and take away both our place and nation. 

John 1149  And one of them, named Caiaphas, being the high priest that same year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all, 

John 1150  Nor consider that it is expedient for us, that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not. 

John 1151  And this spake he not of himself but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation 

John 1152  And not for that nation only, but that also he should gather together in one the children of God that were scattered abroad. 

John 1153  Then from that day forth they took counsel together for to put him to death. 

John 1154  Jesus therefore walked no more openly among the Jews but went thence unto a country near to the wilderness, into a city called Ephraim, and there continued with his disciples. 

John 1155  And the Jews' passover was nigh at hand and many went out of the country up to Jerusalem before the passover, to purify themselves. 

John 1156  Then sought they for Jesus, and spake among themselves, as they stood in the temple, What think ye, that he will not come to the feast? 

John 1157  Now both the chief priests and the Pharisees had given a commandment, that, if any man knew where he were, he should shew it, that they might take him. 

John 121  Then Jesus six days before the passover came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. 

John 122  There they made him a supper and Martha served but Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him. 

John 123  Then took Mary a pound of ointment of spikenard, very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair and the house was filled with the odour of the ointment. 

John 124  Then saith one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, which should betray him, 

John 125  Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence, and given to the poor? 

John 126  This he said, not that he cared for the poor but because he was a thief, and had the bag, and bare what was put therein. 

John 127  Then said Jesus, Let her alone against the day of my burying hath she kept this. 

John 128  For the poor always ye have with you but me ye have not always. 

John 129  Much people of the Jews therefore knew that he was there and they came not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead. 

John 1210  But the chief priests consulted that they might put Lazarus also to death 

John 1211  Because that by reason of him many of the Jews went away, and believed on Jesus. 

John 1212  On the next day much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, 

John 1213  Took branches of palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried, Hosanna Blessed is the King of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. 

John 1214  And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon as it is written, 

John 1215  Fear not, daughter of Sion behold, thy King cometh, sitting on an ass's colt. 

John 1216  These things understood not his disciples at the first but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him. 

John 1217  The people therefore that was with him when he called Lazarus out of his grave, and raised him from the dead, bare record. 

John 1218  For this cause the people also met him, for that they heard that he had done this miracle. 

John 1219  The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing? behold, the world is gone after him. 

John 1220  And there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the feast 

John 1221  The same came therefore to Philip, which was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and desired him, saying, Sir, we would see Jesus. 

John 1222  Philip cometh and telleth Andrew and again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus. 

John 1223  And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour is come, that the Son of man should be glorified. 

John 1224  Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. 

John 1225  He that loveth his life shall lose it and he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal. 

John 1226  If any man serve me, let him follow me and where I am, there shall also my servant be if any man serve me, him will my Father honour. 

John 1227  Now is my soul troubled and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour but for this cause came I unto this hour. 

John 1228  Father, glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heaven, saying, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again. 

John 1229  The people therefore, that stood by, and heard it, said that it thundered others said, An angel spake to him. 

John 1230  Jesus answered and said, This voice came not because of me, but for your sakes. 

John 1231  Now is the judgment of this world now shall the prince of this world be cast out. 

John 1232  And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me. 

John 1233  This he said, signifying what death he should die. 

John 1234  The people answered him, We have heard out of the law that Christ abideth for ever and how sayest thou, The Son of man must be lifted up? who is this Son of man? 

John 1235  Then Jesus said unto them, Yet a little while is the light with you. Walk while ye have the light, lest darkness come upon you for he that walketh in darkness knoweth not whither he goeth. 

John 1236  While ye have light, believe in the light, that ye may be the children of light. These things spake Jesus, and departed, and did hide himself from them. 

John 1237  But though he had done so many miracles before them, yet they believed not on him 

John 1238  That the saying of Esaias the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spake, Lord, who hath believed our report? and to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed? 

John 1239  Therefore they could not believe, because that Esaias said again, 

John 1240  He hath blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart that they should not see with their eyes, nor understand with their heart, and be converted, and I should heal them. 

John 1241  These things said Esaias, when he saw his glory, and spake of him. 

John 1242  Nevertheless among the chief rulers also many believed on him but because of the Pharisees they did not confess him, lest they should be put out of the synagogue 

John 1243  For they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God. 

John 1244  Jesus cried and said, He that believeth on me, believeth not on me, but on him that sent me. 

John 1245  And he that seeth me seeth him that sent me. 

John 1246  I am come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness. 

John 1247  And if any man hear my words, and believe not, I judge him not for I came not to judge the world, but to save the world. 

John 1248  He that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my words, hath one that judgeth him the word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day. 

John 1249  For I have not spoken of myself but the Father which sent me, he gave me a commandment, what I should say, and what I should speak. 

John 1250  And I know that his commandment is life everlasting whatsoever I speak therefore, even as the Father said unto me, so I speak. 

John 131  Now before the feast of the passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. 

John 132  And supper being ended, the devil having now put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him 

John 133  Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he was come from God, and went to God 

John 134  He riseth from supper, and laid aside his garments and took a towel, and girded himself. 

John 135  After that he poureth water into a bason, and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded. 

John 136  Then cometh he to Simon Peter and Peter saith unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? 

John 137  Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not now but thou shalt know hereafter. 

John 138  Peter saith unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. 

John 139  Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. 

John 1310  Jesus saith to him, He that is washed needeth not save to wash his feet, but is clean every whit and ye are clean, but not all. 

John 1311  For he knew who should betray him therefore said he, Ye are not all clean. 

John 1312  So after he had washed their feet, and had taken his garments, and was set down again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you? 

John 1313  Ye call me Master and Lord and ye say well for so I am. 

John 1314  If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet ye also ought to wash one another's feet. 

John 1315  For I have given you an example, that ye should do as I have done to you. 

John 1316  Verily, verily, I say unto you, The servant is not greater than his lord neither he that is sent greater than he that sent him. 

John 1317  If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them. 

John 1318  I speak not of you all I know whom I have chosen but that the scripture may be fulfilled, He that eateth bread with me hath lifted up his heel against me. 

John 1319  Now I tell you before it come, that, when it is come to pass, ye may believe that I am he. 

John 1320  Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that receiveth whomsoever I send receiveth me and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me. 

John 1321  When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in spirit, and testified, and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. 

John 1322  Then the disciples looked one on another, doubting of whom he spake. 

John 1323  Now there was leaning on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved. 

John 1324  Simon Peter therefore beckoned to him, that he should ask who it should be of whom he spake. 

John 1325  He then lying on Jesus' breast saith unto him, Lord, who is it? 

John 1326  Jesus answered, He it is, to whom I shall give a sop, when I have dipped it. And when he had dipped the sop, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. 

John 1327  And after the sop Satan entered into him. Then said Jesus unto him, That thou doest, do quickly. 

John 1328  Now no man at the table knew for what intent he spake this unto him. 

John 1329  For some of them thought, because Judas had the bag, that Jesus had said unto him, Buy those things that we have need of against the feast or, that he should give something to the poor. 

John 1330  He then having received the sop went immediately out and it was night. 

John 1331  Therefore, when he was gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him. 

John 1332  If God be glorified in him, God shall also glorify him in himself, and shall straightway glorify him. 

John 1333  Little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek me and as I said unto the Jews, Whither I go, ye cannot come so now I say to you. 

John 1334  A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. 

John 1335  By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another. 

John 1336  Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now but thou shalt follow me afterwards. 

John 1337  Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thy sake. 

John 1338  Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake? Verily, verily, I say unto thee, The cock shall not crow, till thou hast denied me thrice. 

John 141  Let not your heart be troubled ye believe in God, believe also in me. 

John 142  In my Father's house are many mansions if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. 

John 143  And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself that where I am, there ye may be also. 

John 144  And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know. 

John 145  Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest and how can we know the way? 

John 146  Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life no man cometh unto the Father, but by me. 

John 147  If ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also and from henceforth ye know him, and have seen him. 

John 148  Philip saith unto him, Lord, shew us the Father, and it sufficeth us. 

John 149  Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen the Father and how sayest thou then, Shew us the Father? 

John 1410  Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? the words that I speak unto you I speak not of myself but the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth the works. 

John 1411  Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me or else believe me for the very works' sake. 

John 1412  Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also and greater works than these shall he do because I go unto my Father. 

John 1413  And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. 

John 1414  If ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it. 

John 1415  If ye love me, keep my commandments. 

John 1416  And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever 

John 1417  Even the Spirit of truth whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him but ye know him for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you. 

John 1418  I will not leave you comfortless I will come to you. 

John 1419  Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more but ye see me because I live, ye shall live also. 

John 1420  At that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you. 

John 1421  He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him. 

John 1422  Judas saith unto him, not Iscariot, Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world? 

John 1423  Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him. 

John 1424  He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings and the word which ye hear is not mine, but the Father's which sent me. 

John 1425  These things have I spoken unto you, being yet present with you. 

John 1426  But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you. 

John 1427  Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. 

John 1428  Ye have heard how I said unto you, I go away, and come again unto you. If ye loved me, ye would rejoice, because I said, I go unto the Father for my Father is greater than I. 

John 1429  And now I have told you before it come to pass, that, when it is come to pass, ye might believe. 

John 1430  Hereafter I will not talk much with you for the prince of this world cometh, and hath nothing in me. 

John 1431  But that the world may know that I love the Father and as the Father gave me commandment, even so I do. Arise, let us go hence. 

John 151  I am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman. 

John 152  Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away and every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. 

John 153  Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. 

John 154  Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine no more can ye, except ye abide in me. 

John 155  I am the vine, ye are the branches He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit for without me ye can do nothing. 

John 156  If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. 

John 157  If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. 

John 158  Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit so shall ye be my disciples. 

John 159  As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you continue ye in my love. 

John 1510  If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love even as I have kept my Father's commandments, and abide in his love. 

John 1511  These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. 

John 1512  This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you. 

John 1513  Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. 

John 1514  Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you. 

John 1515  Henceforth I call you not servants for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth but I have called you friends for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you. 

John 1516  Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you. 

John 1517  These things I command you, that ye love one another. 

John 1518  If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you. 

John 1519  If ye were of the world, the world would love his own but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. 

John 1520  Remember the word that I said unto you, The servant is not greater than his lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you if they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also. 

John 1521  But all these things will they do unto you for my name's sake, because they know not him that sent me. 

John 1522  If I had not come and spoken unto them, they had not had sin but now they have no cloak for their sin. 

John 1523  He that hateth me hateth my Father also. 

John 1524  If I had not done among them the works which none other man did, they had not had sin but now have they both seen and hated both me and my Father. 

John 1525  But this cometh to pass, that the word might be fulfilled that is written in their law, They hated me without a cause. 

John 1526  But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me 

John 1527  And ye also shall bear witness, because ye have been with me from the beginning. 

John 161  These things have I spoken unto you, that ye should not be offended. 

John 162  They shall put you out of the synagogues yea, the time cometh, that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God service. 

John 163  And these things will they do unto you, because they have not known the Father, nor me. 

John 164  But these things have I told you, that when the time shall come, ye may remember that I told you of them. And these things I said not unto you at the beginning, because I was with you. 

John 165  But now I go my way to him that sent me and none of you asketh me, Whither goest thou? 

John 166  But because I have said these things unto you, sorrow hath filled your heart. 

John 167  Nevertheless I tell you the truth It is expedient for you that I go away for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you but if I depart, I will send him unto you. 

John 168  And when he is come, he will reprove the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment 

John 169  Of sin, because they believe not on me 

John 1610  Of righteousness, because I go to my Father, and ye see me no more 

John 1611  Of judgment, because the prince of this world is judged. 

John 1612  I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now. 

John 1613  Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth for he shall not speak of himself but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak and he will shew you things to come. 

John 1614  He shall glorify me for he shall receive of mine, and shall shew it unto you. 

John 1615  All things that the Father hath are mine therefore said I, that he shall take of mine, and shall shew it unto you. 

John 1616  A little while, and ye shall not see me and again, a little while, and ye shall see me, because I go to the Father. 

John 1617  Then said some of his disciples among themselves, What is this that he saith unto us, A little while, and ye shall not see me and again, a little while, and ye shall see me and, Because I go to the Father? 

John 1618  They said therefore, What is this that he saith, A little while? we cannot tell what he saith. 

John 1619  Now Jesus knew that they were desirous to ask him, and said unto them, Do ye enquire among yourselves of that I said, A little while, and ye shall not see me and again, a little while, and ye shall see me? 

John 1620  Verily, verily, I say unto you, That ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice and ye shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy. 

John 1621  A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow, because her hour is come but as soon as she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish, for joy that a man is born into the world. 

John 1622  And ye now therefore have sorrow but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from you. 

John 1623  And in that day ye shall ask me nothing. Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it you. 

John 1624  Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full. 

John 1625  These things have I spoken unto you in proverbs but the time cometh, when I shall no more speak unto you in proverbs, but I shall shew you plainly of the Father. 

John 1626  At that day ye shall ask in my name and I say not unto you, that I will pray the Father for you 

John 1627  For the Father himself loveth you, because ye have loved me, and have believed that I came out from God. 

John 1628  I came forth from the Father, and am come into the world again, I leave the world, and go to the Father. 

John 1629  His disciples said unto him, Lo, now speakest thou plainly, and speakest no proverb. 

John 1630  Now are we sure that thou knowest all things, and needest not that any man should ask thee by this we believe that thou camest forth from God. 

John 1631  Jesus answered them, Do ye now believe? 

John 1632  Behold, the hour cometh, yea, is now come, that ye shall be scattered, every man to his own, and shall leave me alone and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. 

John 1633  These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation but be of good cheer I have overcome the world. 

John 171  These words spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour is come glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee 

John 172  As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. 

John 173  And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. 

John 174  I have glorified thee on the earth I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. 

John 175  And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. 

John 176  I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world thine they were, and thou gavest them me and they have kept thy word. 

John 177  Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee. 

John 178  For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me and they have received them, and have known surely that I came out from thee, and they have believed that thou didst send me. 

John 179  I pray for them I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me for they are thine. 

John 1710  And all mine are thine, and thine are mine and I am glorified in them. 

John 1711  And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are. 

John 1712  While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none of them is lost, but the son of perdition that the scripture might be fulfilled. 

John 1713  And now come I to thee and these things I speak in the world, that they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves. 

John 1714  I have given them thy word and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. 

John 1715  I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil. 

John 1716  They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. 

John 1717  Sanctify them through thy truth thy word is truth. 

John 1718  As thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I also sent them into the world. 

John 1719  And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also might be sanctified through the truth. 

John 1720  Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word 

John 1721  That they all may be one as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us that the world may believe that thou hast sent me. 

John 1722  And the glory which thou gavest me I have given them that they may be one, even as we are one 

John 1723  I in them, and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in one and that the world may know that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them, as thou hast loved me. 

John 1724  Father, I will that they also, whom thou hast given me, be with me where I am that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given me for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world. 

John 1725  O righteous Father, the world hath not known thee but I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me. 

John 1726  And I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare it that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them. 

John 181  When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Cedron, where was a garden, into the which he entered, and his disciples. 

John 182  And Judas also, which betrayed him, knew the place for Jesus ofttimes resorted thither with his disciples. 

John 183  Judas then, having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, cometh thither with lanterns and torches and weapons. 

John 184  Jesus therefore, knowing all things that should come upon him, went forth, and said unto them, Whom seek ye? 

John 185  They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus saith unto them, I am he. And Judas also, which betrayed him, stood with them. 

John 186  As soon then as he had said unto them, I am he, they went backward, and fell to the ground. 

John 187  Then asked he them again, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. 

John 188  Jesus answered, I have told you that I am he if therefore ye seek me, let these go their way 

John 189  That the saying might be fulfilled, which he spake, Of them which thou gavest me have I lost none. 

John 1810  Then Simon Peter having a sword drew it, and smote the high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus. 

John 1811  Then said Jesus unto Peter, Put up thy sword into the sheath the cup which my Father hath given me, shall I not drink it? 

John 1812  Then the band and the captain and officers of the Jews took Jesus, and bound him, 

John 1813  And led him away to Annas first for he was father in law to Caiaphas, which was the high priest that same year. 

John 1814  Now Caiaphas was he, which gave counsel to the Jews, that it was expedient that one man should die for the people. 

John 1815  And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple that disciple was known unto the high priest, and went in with Jesus into the palace of the high priest. 

John 1816  But Peter stood at the door without. Then went out that other disciple, which was known unto the high priest, and spake unto her that kept the door, and brought in Peter. 

John 1817  Then saith the damsel that kept the door unto Peter, Art not thou also one of this man's disciples? He saith, I am not. 

John 1818  And the servants and officers stood there, who had made a fire of coals for it was cold and they warmed themselves and Peter stood with them, and warmed himself. 

John 1819  The high priest then asked Jesus of his disciples, and of his doctrine. 

John 1820  Jesus answered him, I spake openly to the world I ever taught in the synagogue, and in the temple, whither the Jews always resort and in secret have I said nothing. 

John 1821  Why askest thou me? ask them which heard me, what I have said unto them behold, they know what I said. 

John 1822  And when he had thus spoken, one of the officers which stood by struck Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, Answerest thou the high priest so? 

John 1823  Jesus answered him, If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil but if well, why smitest thou me? 

John 1824  Now Annas had sent him bound unto Caiaphas the high priest. 

John 1825  And Simon Peter stood and warmed himself. They said therefore unto him, Art not thou also one of his disciples? He denied it, and said, I am not. 

John 1826  One of the servants of the high priest, being his kinsman whose ear Peter cut off, saith, Did not I see thee in the garden with him? 

John 1827  Peter then denied again and immediately the cock crew. 

John 1828  Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgment and it was early and they themselves went not into the judgment hall, lest they should be defiled but that they might eat the passover. 

John 1829  Pilate then went out unto them, and said, What accusation bring ye against this man? 

John 1830  They answered and said unto him, If he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up unto thee. 

John 1831  Then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him, and judge him according to your law. The Jews therefore said unto him, It is not lawful for us to put any man to death 

John 1832  That the saying of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spake, signifying what death he should die. 

John 1833  Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall again, and called Jesus, and said unto him, Art thou the King of the Jews? 

John 1834  Jesus answered him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee of me? 

John 1835  Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own nation and the chief priests have delivered thee unto me what hast thou done? 

John 1836  Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews but now is my kingdom not from hence. 

John 1837  Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice. 

John 1838  Pilate saith unto him, What is truth? And when he had said this, he went out again unto the Jews, and saith unto them, I find in him no fault at all. 

John 1839  But ye have a custom, that I should release unto you one at the passover will ye therefore that I release unto you the King of the Jews? 

John 1840  Then cried they all again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber. 

John 191  Then Pilate therefore took Jesus, and scourged him. 

John 192  And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns, and put it on his head, and they put on him a purple robe, 

John 193  And said, Hail, King of the Jews! and they smote him with their hands. 

John 194  Pilate therefore went forth again, and saith unto them, Behold, I bring him forth to you, that ye may know that I find no fault in him. 

John 195  Then came Jesus forth, wearing the crown of thorns, and the purple robe. And Pilate saith unto them, Behold the man! 

John 196  When the chief priests therefore and officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him, crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Take ye him, and crucify him for I find no fault in him. 

John 197  The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by our law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of God. 

John 198  When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he was the more afraid 

John 199  And went again into the judgment hall, and saith unto Jesus, Whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer. 

John 1910  Then saith Pilate unto him, Speakest thou not unto me? knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee, and have power to release thee? 

John 1911  Jesus answered, Thou couldest have no power at all against me, except it were given thee from above therefore he that delivered me unto thee hath the greater sin. 

John 1912  And from thenceforth Pilate sought to release him but the Jews cried out, saying, If thou let this man go, thou art not Caesar's friend whosoever maketh himself a king speaketh against Caesar. 

John 1913  When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he brought Jesus forth, and sat down in the judgment seat in a place that is called the Pavement, but in the Hebrew, Gabbatha. 

John 1914  And it was the preparation of the passover, and about the sixth hour and he saith unto the Jews, Behold your King! 

John 1915  But they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar. 

John 1916  Then delivered he him therefore unto them to be crucified. And they took Jesus, and led him away. 

John 1917  And he bearing his cross went forth into a place called the place of a skull, which is called in the Hebrew Golgotha 

John 1918  Where they crucified him, and two other with him, on either side one, and Jesus in the midst. 

John 1919  And Pilate wrote a title, and put it on the cross. And the writing was JESUS OF NAZARETH THE KING OF THE JEWS. 

John 1920  This title then read many of the Jews for the place where Jesus was crucified was nigh to the city and it was written in Hebrew, and Greek, and Latin. 

John 1921  Then said the chief priests of the Jews to Pilate, Write not, The King of the Jews but that he said, I am King of the Jews. 

John 1922  Pilate answered, What I have written I have written. 

John 1923  Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments, and made four parts, to every soldier a part and also his coat now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout. 

John 1924  They said therefore among themselves, Let us not rend it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be that the scripture might be fulfilled, which saith, They parted my raiment among them, and for my vesture they did cast lots. These things therefore the soldiers did. 

John 1925  Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene. 

John 1926  When Jesus therefore saw his mother, and the disciple standing by, whom he loved, he saith unto his mother, Woman, behold thy son! 

John 1927  Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother! And from that hour that disciple took her unto his own home. 

John 1928  After this, Jesus knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, saith, I thirst. 

John 1929  Now there was set a vessel full of vinegar and they filled a spunge with vinegar, and put it upon hyssop, and put it to his mouth. 

John 1930  When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished and he bowed his head, and gave up the ghost. 

John 1931  The Jews therefore, because it was the preparation, that the bodies should not remain upon the cross on the sabbath day, (for that sabbath day was an high day,) besought Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. 

John 1932  Then came the soldiers, and brake the legs of the first, and of the other which was crucified with him. 

John 1933  But when they came to Jesus, and saw that he was dead already, they brake not his legs 

John 1934  But one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and forthwith came there out blood and water. 

John 1935  And he that saw it bare record, and his record is true and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye might believe. 

John 1936  For these things were done, that the scripture should be fulfilled, A bone of him shall not be broken. 

John 1937  And again another scripture saith, They shall look on him whom they pierced. 

John 1938  And after this Joseph of Arimathaea, being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, besought Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus and Pilate gave him leave. He came therefore, and took the body of Jesus. 

John 1939  And there came also Nicodemus, which at the first came to Jesus by night, and brought a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about an hundred pound weight. 

John 1940  Then took they the body of Jesus, and wound it in linen clothes with the spices, as the manner of the Jews is to bury. 

John 1941  Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden and in the garden a new sepulchre, wherein was never man yet laid. 

John 1942  There laid they Jesus therefore because of the Jews' preparation day for the sepulchre was nigh at hand. 

John 21  And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee and the mother of Jesus was there 

John 22  And both Jesus was called, and his disciples, to the marriage. 

John 23  And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him, They have no wine. 

John 24  Jesus saith unto her, Woman, what have I to do with thee? mine hour is not yet come. 

John 25  His mother saith unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it. 

John 26  And there were set there six waterpots of stone, after the manner of the purifying of the Jews, containing two or three firkins apiece. 

John 27  Jesus saith unto them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim. 

John 28  And he saith unto them, Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast. And they bare it. 

John 29  When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine, and knew not whence it was (but the servants which drew the water knew) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom, 

John 210  And saith unto him, Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine and when men have well drunk, then that which is worse but thou hast kept the good wine until now. 

John 211  This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested forth his glory and his disciples believed on him. 

John 212  After this he went down to Capernaum, he, and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples and they continued there not many days. 

John 213  And the Jews' passover was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 

John 214  And found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep and doves, and the changers of money sitting 

John 215  And when he had made a scourge of small cords, he drove them all out of the temple, and the sheep, and the oxen and poured out the changers' money, and overthrew the tables 

John 216  And said unto them that sold doves, Take these things hence make not my Father's house an house of merchandise. 

John 217  And his disciples remembered that it was written, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up. 

John 218  Then answered the Jews and said unto him, What sign shewest thou unto us, seeing that thou doest these things? 

John 219  Jesus answered and said unto them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. 

John 220  Then said the Jews, Forty and six years was this temple in building, and wilt thou rear it up in three days? 

John 221  But he spake of the temple of his body. 

John 222  When therefore he was risen from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this unto them and they believed the scripture, and the word which Jesus had said. 

John 223  Now when he was in Jerusalem at the passover, in the feast day, many believed in his name, when they saw the miracles which he did. 

John 224  But Jesus did not commit himself unto them, because he knew all men, 

John 225  And needed not that any should testify of man for he knew what was in man. 

John 201  The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre. 

John 202  Then she runneth, and cometh to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, They have taken away the LORD out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him. 

John 203  Peter therefore went forth, and that other disciple, and came to the sepulchre. 

John 204  So they ran both together and the other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulchre. 

John 205  And he stooping down, and looking in, saw the linen clothes lying yet went he not in. 

John 206  Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and seeth the linen clothes lie, 

John 207  And the napkin, that was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself. 

John 208  Then went in also that other disciple, which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw, and believed. 

John 209  For as yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise again from the dead. 

John 2010  Then the disciples went away again unto their own home. 

John 2011  But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping and as she wept, she stooped down, and looked into the sepulchre, 

John 2012  And seeth two angels in white sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. 

John 2013  And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She saith unto them, Because they have taken away my LORD, and I know not where they have laid him. 

John 2014  And when she had thus said, she turned herself back, and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus. 

John 2015  Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou? She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. 

John 2016  Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She turned herself, and saith unto him, Rabboni which is to say, Master. 

John 2017  Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not for I am not yet ascended to my Father but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father and to my God, and your God. 

John 2018  Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the LORD, and that he had spoken these things unto her. 

John 2019  Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, came Jesus and stood in the midst, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. 

John 2020  And when he had so said, he shewed unto them his hands and his side. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the LORD. 

John 2021  Then said Jesus to them again, Peace be unto you as my Father hath sent me, even so send I you. 

John 2022  And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost 

John 2023  Whose soever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them and whose soever sins ye retain, they are retained. 

John 2024  But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came. 

John 2025  The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the LORD. But he said unto them, Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe. 

John 2026  And after eight days again his disciples were within, and Thomas with them then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace be unto you. 

John 2027  Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side and be not faithless, but believing. 

John 2028  And Thomas answered and said unto him, My LORD and my God. 

John 2029  Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed. 

John 2030  And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book 

John 2031  But these are written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God and that believing ye might have life through his name. 

John 211  After these things Jesus shewed himself again to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias and on this wise shewed he himself. 

John 212  There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas called Didymus, and Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two other of his disciples. 

John 213  Simon Peter saith unto them, I go a fishing. They say unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth, and entered into a ship immediately and that night they caught nothing. 

John 214  But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. 

John 215  Then Jesus saith unto them, Children, have ye any meat? They answered him, No. 

John 216  And he said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes. 

John 217  Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved saith unto Peter, It is the Lord. Now when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he girt his fisher's coat unto him, (for he was naked,) and did cast himself into the sea. 

John 218  And the other disciples came in a little ship (for they were not far from land, but as it were two hundred cubits,) dragging the net with fishes. 

John 219  As soon then as they were come to land, they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid thereon, and bread. 

John 2110  Jesus saith unto them, Bring of the fish which ye have now caught. 

John 2111  Simon Peter went up, and drew the net to land full of great fishes, an hundred and fifty and three and for all there were so many, yet was not the net broken. 

John 2112  Jesus saith unto them, Come and dine. And none of the disciples durst ask him, Who art thou? knowing that it was the Lord. 

John 2113  Jesus then cometh, and taketh bread, and giveth them, and fish likewise. 

John 2114  This is now the third time that Jesus shewed himself to his disciples, after that he was risen from the dead. 

John 2115  So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. 

John 2116  He saith to him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep. 

John 2117  He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep. 

John 2118  Verily, verily, I say unto thee, When thou wast young, thou girdest thyself, and walkedst whither thou wouldest but when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldest not. 

John 2119  This spake he, signifying by what death he should glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he saith unto him, Follow me. 

John 2120  Then Peter, turning about, seeth the disciple whom Jesus loved following which also leaned on his breast at supper, and said, Lord, which is he that betrayeth thee? 

John 2121  Peter seeing him saith to Jesus, Lord, and what shall this man do? 

John 2122  Jesus saith unto him, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? follow thou me. 

John 2123  Then went this saying abroad among the brethren, that that disciple should not die yet Jesus said not unto him, He shall not die but, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? 

John 2124  This is the disciple which testifieth of these things, and wrote these things and we know that his testimony is true. 

John 2125  And there are also many other things which Jesus did, the which, if they should be written every one, I suppose that even the world itself could not contain the books that should be written. Amen. 

John 31  There was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews 

John 32  The same came to Jesus by night, and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God for no man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be with him. 

John 33  Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. 

John 34  Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? can he enter the second time into his mother's womb, and be born? 

John 35  Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. 

John 36  That which is born of the flesh is flesh and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. 

John 37  Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again. 

John 38  The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth so is every one that is born of the Spirit. 

John 39  Nicodemus answered and said unto him, How can these things be? 

John 310  Jesus answered and said unto him, Art thou a master of Israel, and knowest not these things? 

John 311  Verily, verily, I say unto thee, We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen and ye receive not our witness. 

John 312  If I have told you earthly things, and ye believe not, how shall ye believe, if I tell you of heavenly things? 

John 313  And no man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, even the Son of man which is in heaven. 

John 314  And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up 

John 315  That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. 

John 316  For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. 

John 317  For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world but that the world through him might be saved. 

John 318  He that believeth on him is not condemned but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. 

John 319  And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. 

John 320  For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved. 

John 321  But he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God. 

John 322  After these things came Jesus and his disciples into the land of Judaea and there he tarried with them, and baptized. 

John 323  And John also was baptizing in Aenon near to Salim, because there was much water there and they came, and were baptized. 

John 324  For John was not yet cast into prison. 

John 325  Then there arose a question between some of John's disciples and the Jews about purifying. 

John 326  And they came unto John, and said unto him, Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou barest witness, behold, the same baptizeth, and all men come to him. 

John 327  John answered and said, A man can receive nothing, except it be given him from heaven. 

John 328  Ye yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I am sent before him. 

John 329  He that hath the bride is the bridegroom but the friend of the bridegroom, which standeth and heareth him, rejoiceth greatly because of the bridegroom's voice this my joy therefore is fulfilled. 

John 330  He must increase, but I must decrease. 

John 331  He that cometh from above is above all he that is of the earth is earthly, and speaketh of the earth he that cometh from heaven is above all. 

John 332  And what he hath seen and heard, that he testifieth and no man receiveth his testimony. 

John 333  He that hath received his testimony hath set to his seal that God is true. 

John 334  For he whom God hath sent speaketh the words of God for God giveth not the Spirit by measure unto him. 

John 335  The Father loveth the Son, and hath given all things into his hand. 

John 336  He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life but the wrath of God abideth on him. 

John 41  When therefore the LORD knew how the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John, 

John 42  (Though Jesus himself baptized not, but his disciples,) 

John 43  He left Judaea, and departed again into Galilee. 

John 44  And he must needs go through Samaria. 

John 45  Then cometh he to a city of Samaria, which is called Sychar, near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. 

John 46  Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well and it was about the sixth hour. 

John 47  There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink. 

John 48  (For his disciples were gone away unto the city to buy meat.) 

John 49  Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? for the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans. 

John 410  Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water. 

John 411  The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep from whence then hast thou that living water? 

John 412  Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle? 

John 413  Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again 

John 414  But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life. 

John 415  The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this water, that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw. 

John 416  Jesus saith unto her, Go, call thy husband, and come hither. 

John 417  The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said unto her, Thou hast well said, I have no husband 

John 418  For thou hast had five husbands and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband in that saidst thou truly. 

John 419  The woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet. 

John 420  Our fathers worshipped in this mountain and ye say, that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. 

John 421  Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour cometh, when ye shall neither in this mountain, nor yet at Jerusalem, worship the Father. 

John 422  Ye worship ye know not what we know what we worship for salvation is of the Jews. 

John 423  But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth for the Father seeketh such to worship him. 

John 424  God is a Spirit and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. 

John 425  The woman saith unto him, I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ when he is come, he will tell us all things. 

John 426  Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am he. 

John 427  And upon this came his disciples, and marvelled that he talked with the woman yet no man said, What seekest thou? or, Why talkest thou with her? 

John 428  The woman then left her waterpot, and went her way into the city, and saith to the men, 

John 429  Come, see a man, which told me all things that ever I did is not this the Christ? 

John 430  Then they went out of the city, and came unto him. 

John 431  In the mean while his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat. 

John 432  But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that ye know not of. 

John 433  Therefore said the disciples one to another, Hath any man brought him ought to eat? 

John 434  Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work. 

John 435  Say not ye, There are yet four months, and then cometh harvest? behold, I say unto you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields for they are white already to harvest. 

John 436  And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together. 

John 437  And herein is that saying true, One soweth, and another reapeth. 

John 438  I sent you to reap that whereon ye bestowed no labour other men laboured, and ye are entered into their labours. 

John 439  And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman, which testified, He told me all that ever I did. 

John 440  So when the Samaritans were come unto him, they besought him that he would tarry with them and he abode there two days. 

John 441  And many more believed because of his own word 

John 442  And said unto the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy saying for we have heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Christ, the Saviour of the world. 

John 443  Now after two days he departed thence, and went into Galilee. 

John 444  For Jesus himself testified, that a prophet hath no honour in his own country. 

John 445  Then when he was come into Galilee, the Galilaeans received him, having seen all the things that he did at Jerusalem at the feast for they also went unto the feast. 

John 446  So Jesus came again into Cana of Galilee, where he made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman, whose son was sick at Capernaum. 

John 447  When he heard that Jesus was come out of Judaea into Galilee, he went unto him, and besought him that he would come down, and heal his son for he was at the point of death. 

John 448  Then said Jesus unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe. 

John 449  The nobleman saith unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die. 

John 450  Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way thy son liveth. And the man believed the word that Jesus had spoken unto him, and he went his way. 

John 451  And as he was now going down, his servants met him, and told him, saying, Thy son liveth. 

John 452  Then enquired he of them the hour when he began to amend. And they said unto him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him. 

John 453  So the father knew that it was at the same hour, in the which Jesus said unto him, Thy son liveth and himself believed, and his whole house. 

John 454  This is again the second miracle that Jesus did, when he was come out of Judaea into Galilee. 

John 51  After this there was a feast of the Jews and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 

John 52  Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool, which is called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, having five porches. 

John 53  In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk, of blind, halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water. 

John 54  For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool, and troubled the water whosoever then first after the troubling of the water stepped in was made whole of whatsoever disease he had. 

John 55  And a certain man was there, which had an infirmity thirty and eight years. 

John 56  When Jesus saw him lie, and knew that he had been now a long time in that case, he saith unto him, Wilt thou be made whole? 

John 57  The impotent man answered him, Sir, I have no man, when the water is troubled, to put me into the pool but while I am coming, another steppeth down before me. 

John 58  Jesus saith unto him, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk. 

John 59  And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his bed, and walked and on the same day was the sabbath. 

John 510  The Jews therefore said unto him that was cured, It is the sabbath day it is not lawful for thee to carry thy bed. 

John 511  He answered them, He that made me whole, the same said unto me, Take up thy bed, and walk. 

John 512  Then asked they him, What man is that which said unto thee, Take up thy bed, and walk? 

John 513  And he that was healed wist not who it was for Jesus had conveyed himself away, a multitude being in that place. 

John 514  Afterward Jesus findeth him in the temple, and said unto him, Behold, thou art made whole sin no more, lest a worse thing come unto thee. 

John 515  The man departed, and told the Jews that it was Jesus, which had made him whole. 

John 516  And therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus, and sought to slay him, because he had done these things on the sabbath day. 

John 517  But Jesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto, and I work. 

John 518  Therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not only had broken the sabbath, but said also that God was his Father, making himself equal with God. 

John 519  Then answered Jesus and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise. 

John 520  For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things that himself doeth and he will shew him greater works than these, that ye may marvel. 

John 521  For as the Father raiseth up the dead, and quickeneth them even so the Son quickeneth whom he will. 

John 522  For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son 

John 523  That all men should honour the Son, even as they honour the Father. He that honoureth not the Son honoureth not the Father which hath sent him. 

John 524  Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation but is passed from death unto life. 

John 525  Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God and they that hear shall live. 

John 526  For as the Father hath life in himself so hath he given to the Son to have life in himself 

John 527  And hath given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is the Son of man. 

John 528  Marvel not at this for the hour is coming, in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice, 

John 529  And shall come forth they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation. 

John 530  I can of mine own self do nothing as I hear, I judge and my judgment is just because I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father which hath sent me. 

John 531  If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true. 

John 532  There is another that beareth witness of me and I know that the witness which he witnesseth of me is true. 

John 533  Ye sent unto John, and he bare witness unto the truth. 

John 534  But I receive not testimony from man but these things I say, that ye might be saved. 

John 535  He was a burning and a shining light and ye were willing for a season to rejoice in his light. 

John 536  But I have greater witness than that of John for the works which the Father hath given me to finish, the same works that I do, bear witness of me, that the Father hath sent me. 

John 537  And the Father himself, which hath sent me, hath borne witness of me. Ye have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his shape. 

John 538  And ye have not his word abiding in you for whom he hath sent, him ye believe not. 

John 539  Search the scriptures for in them ye think ye have eternal life and they are they which testify of me. 

John 540  And ye will not come to me, that ye might have life. 

John 541  I receive not honour from men. 

John 542  But I know you, that ye have not the love of God in you. 

John 543  I am come in my Father's name, and ye receive me not if another shall come in his own name, him ye will receive. 

John 544  How can ye believe, which receive honour one of another, and seek not the honour that cometh from God only? 

John 545  Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father there is one that accuseth you, even Moses, in whom ye trust. 

John 546  For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me for he wrote of me. 

John 547  But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my words? 

John 61  After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, which is the sea of Tiberias. 

John 62  And a great multitude followed him, because they saw his miracles which he did on them that were diseased. 

John 63  And Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples. 

John 64  And the passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh. 

John 65  When Jesus then lifted up his eyes, and saw a great company come unto him, he saith unto Philip, Whence shall we buy bread, that these may eat? 

John 66  And this he said to prove him for he himself knew what he would do. 

John 67  Philip answered him, Two hundred pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of them may take a little. 

John 68  One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, saith unto him, 

John 69  There is a lad here, which hath five barley loaves, and two small fishes but what are they among so many? 

John 610  And Jesus said, Make the men sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number about five thousand. 

John 611  And Jesus took the loaves and when he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them that were set down and likewise of the fishes as much as they would. 

John 612  When they were filled, he said unto his disciples, Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost. 

John 613  Therefore they gathered them together, and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves, which remained over and above unto them that had eaten. 

John 614  Then those men, when they had seen the miracle that Jesus did, said, This is of a truth that prophet that should come into the world. 

John 615  When Jesus therefore perceived that they would come and take him by force, to make him a king, he departed again into a mountain himself alone. 

John 616  And when even was now come, his disciples went down unto the sea, 

John 617  And entered into a ship, and went over the sea toward Capernaum. And it was now dark, and Jesus was not come to them. 

John 618  And the sea arose by reason of a great wind that blew. 

John 619  So when they had rowed about five and twenty or thirty furlongs, they see Jesus walking on the sea, and drawing nigh unto the ship and they were afraid. 

John 620  But he saith unto them, It is I be not afraid. 

John 621  Then they willingly received him into the ship and immediately the ship was at the land whither they went. 

John 622  The day following, when the people which stood on the other side of the sea saw that there was none other boat there, save that one whereinto his disciples were entered, and that Jesus went not with his disciples into the boat, but that his disciples were gone away alone 

John 623  (Howbeit there came other boats from Tiberias nigh unto the place where they did eat bread, after that the Lord had given thanks) 

John 624  When the people therefore saw that Jesus was not there, neither his disciples, they also took shipping, and came to Capernaum, seeking for Jesus. 

John 625  And when they had found him on the other side of the sea, they said unto him, Rabbi, when camest thou hither? 

John 626  Jesus answered them and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Ye seek me, not because ye saw the miracles, but because ye did eat of the loaves, and were filled. 

John 627  Labour not for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of man shall give unto you for him hath God the Father sealed. 

John 628  Then said they unto him, What shall we do, that we might work the works of God? 

John 629  Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent. 

John 630  They said therefore unto him, What sign shewest thou then, that we may see, and believe thee? what dost thou work? 

John 631  Our fathers did eat manna in the desert as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat. 

John 632  Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Moses gave you not that bread from heaven but my Father giveth you the true bread from heaven. 

John 633  For the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven, and giveth life unto the world. 

John 634  Then said they unto him, Lord, evermore give us this bread. 

John 635  And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life he that cometh to me shall never hunger and he that believeth on me shall never thirst. 

John 636  But I said unto you, That ye also have seen me, and believe not. 

John 637  All that the Father giveth me shall come to me and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. 

John 638  For I came down from heaven, not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me. 

John 639  And this is the Father's will which hath sent me, that of all which he hath given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day. 

John 640  And this is the will of him that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have everlasting life and I will raise him up at the last day. 

John 641  The Jews then murmured at him, because he said, I am the bread which came down from heaven. 

John 642  And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? how is it then that he saith, I came down from heaven? 

John 643  Jesus therefore answered and said unto them, Murmur not among yourselves. 

John 644  No man can come to me, except the Father which hath sent me draw him and I will raise him up at the last day. 

John 645  It is written in the prophets, And they shall be all taught of God. Every man therefore that hath heard, and hath learned of the Father, cometh unto me. 

John 646  Not that any man hath seen the Father, save he which is of God, he hath seen the Father. 

John 647  Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me hath everlasting life. 

John 648  I am that bread of life. 

John 649  Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and are dead. 

John 650  This is the bread which cometh down from heaven, that a man may eat thereof, and not die. 

John 651  I am the living bread which came down from heaven if any man eat of this bread, he shall live for ever and the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world. 

John 652  The Jews therefore strove among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? 

John 653  Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you. 

John 654  Whoso eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life and I will raise him up at the last day. 

John 655  For my flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. 

John 656  He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him. 

John 657  As the living Father hath sent me, and I live by the Father so he that eateth me, even he shall live by me. 

John 658  This is that bread which came down from heaven not as your fathers did eat manna, and are dead he that eateth of this bread shall live for ever. 

John 659  These things said he in the synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum. 

John 660  Many therefore of his disciples, when they had heard this, said, This is an hard saying who can hear it? 

John 661  When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples murmured at it, he said unto them, Doth this offend you? 

John 662  What and if ye shall see the Son of man ascend up where he was before? 

John 663  It is the spirit that quickeneth the flesh profiteth nothing the words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, and they are life. 

John 664  But there are some of you that believe not. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not, and who should betray him. 

John 665  And he said, Therefore said I unto you, that no man can come unto me, except it were given unto him of my Father. 

John 666  From that time many of his disciples went back, and walked no more with him. 

John 667  Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will ye also go away? 

John 668  Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life. 

John 669  And we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the Son of the living God. 

John 670  Jesus answered them, Have not I chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil? 

John 671  He spake of Judas Iscariot the son of Simon for he it was that should betray him, being one of the twelve. 

John 71  After these things Jesus walked in Galilee for he would not walk in Jewry, because the Jews sought to kill him. 

John 72  Now the Jew's feast of tabernacles was at hand. 

John 73  His brethren therefore said unto him, Depart hence, and go into Judaea, that thy disciples also may see the works that thou doest. 

John 74  For there is no man that doeth any thing in secret, and he himself seeketh to be known openly. If thou do these things, shew thyself to the world. 

John 75  For neither did his brethren believe in him. 

John 76  Then Jesus said unto them, My time is not yet come but your time is alway ready. 

John 77  The world cannot hate you but me it hateth, because I testify of it, that the works thereof are evil. 

John 78  Go ye up unto this feast I go not up yet unto this feast for my time is not yet full come. 

John 79  When he had said these words unto them, he abode still in Galilee. 

John 710  But when his brethren were gone up, then went he also up unto the feast, not openly, but as it were in secret. 

John 711  Then the Jews sought him at the feast, and said, Where is he? 

John 712  And there was much murmuring among the people concerning him for some said, He is a good man others said, Nay but he deceiveth the people. 

John 713  Howbeit no man spake openly of him for fear of the Jews. 

John 714  Now about the midst of the feast Jesus went up into the temple, and taught. 

John 715  And the Jews marvelled, saying, How knoweth this man letters, having never learned? 

John 716  Jesus answered them, and said, My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. 

John 717  If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself. 

John 718  He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory but he that seeketh his glory that sent him, the same is true, and no unrighteousness is in him. 

John 719  Did not Moses give you the law, and yet none of you keepeth the law? Why go ye about to kill me? 

John 720  The people answered and said, Thou hast a devil who goeth about to kill thee? 

John 721  Jesus answered and said unto them, I have done one work, and ye all marvel. 

John 722  Moses therefore gave unto you circumcision (not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers) and ye on the sabbath day circumcise a man. 

John 723  If a man on the sabbath day receive circumcision, that the law of Moses should not be broken are ye angry at me, because I have made a man every whit whole on the sabbath day? 

John 724  Judge not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment. 

John 725  Then said some of them of Jerusalem, Is not this he, whom they seek to kill? 

John 726  But, lo, he speaketh boldly, and they say nothing unto him. Do the rulers know indeed that this is the very Christ? 

John 727  Howbeit we know this man whence he is but when Christ cometh, no man knoweth whence he is. 

John 728  Then cried Jesus in the temple as he taught, saying, Ye both know me, and ye know whence I am and I am not come of myself, but he that sent me is true, whom ye know not. 

John 729  But I know him for I am from him, and he hath sent me. 

John 730  Then they sought to take him but no man laid hands on him, because his hour was not yet come. 

John 731  And many of the people believed on him, and said, When Christ cometh, will he do more miracles than these which this man hath done? 

John 732  The Pharisees heard that the people murmured such things concerning him and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to take him. 

John 733  Then said Jesus unto them, Yet a little while am I with you, and then I go unto him that sent me. 

John 734  Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me and where I am, thither ye cannot come. 

John 735  Then said the Jews among themselves, Whither will he go, that we shall not find him? will he go unto the dispersed among the Gentiles, and teach the Gentiles? 

John 736  What manner of saying is this that he said, Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me and where I am, thither ye cannot come? 

John 737  In the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me, and drink. 

John 738  He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. 

John 739  (But this spake he of the Spirit, which they that believe on him should receive for the Holy Ghost was not yet given because that Jesus was not yet glorified.) 

John 740  Many of the people therefore, when they heard this saying, said, Of a truth this is the Prophet. 

John 741  Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Shall Christ come out of Galilee? 

John 742  Hath not the scripture said, That Christ cometh of the seed of David, and out of the town of Bethlehem, where David was? 

John 743  So there was a division among the people because of him. 

John 744  And some of them would have taken him but no man laid hands on him. 

John 745  Then came the officers to the chief priests and Pharisees and they said unto them, Why have ye not brought him? 

John 746  The officers answered, Never man spake like this man. 

John 747  Then answered them the Pharisees, Are ye also deceived? 

John 748  Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed on him? 

John 749  But this people who knoweth not the law are cursed. 

John 750  Nicodemus saith unto them, (he that came to Jesus by night, being one of them,) 

John 751  Doth our law judge any man, before it hear him, and know what he doeth? 

John 752  They answered and said unto him, Art thou also of Galilee? Search, and look for out of Galilee ariseth no prophet. 

John 753  And every man went unto his own house. 

John 81  Jesus went unto the mount of Olives. 

John 82  And early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the people came unto him and he sat down, and taught them. 

John 83  And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery and when they had set her in the midst, 

John 84  They say unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act. 

John 85  Now Moses in the law commanded us, that such should be stoned but what sayest thou? 

John 86  This they said, tempting him, that they might have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not. 

John 87  So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. 

John 88  And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground. 

John 89  And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. 

John 810  When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none but the woman, he said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? hath no man condemned thee? 

John 811  She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee go, and sin no more. 

John 812  Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. 

John 813  The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bearest record of thyself thy record is not true. 

John 814  Jesus answered and said unto them, Though I bear record of myself, yet my record is true for I know whence I came, and whither I go but ye cannot tell whence I come, and whither I go. 

John 815  Ye judge after the flesh I judge no man. 

John 816  And yet if I judge, my judgment is true for I am not alone, but I and the Father that sent me. 

John 817  It is also written in your law, that the testimony of two men is true. 

John 818  I am one that bear witness of myself, and the Father that sent me beareth witness of me. 

John 819  Then said they unto him, Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, Ye neither know me, nor my Father if ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also. 

John 820  These words spake Jesus in the treasury, as he taught in the temple and no man laid hands on him for his hour was not yet come. 

John 821  Then said Jesus again unto them, I go my way, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sins whither I go, ye cannot come. 

John 822  Then said the Jews, Will he kill himself? because he saith, Whither I go, ye cannot come. 

John 823  And he said unto them, Ye are from beneath I am from above ye are of this world I am not of this world. 

John 824  I said therefore unto you, that ye shall die in your sins for if ye believe not that I am he, ye shall die in your sins. 

John 825  Then said they unto him, Who art thou? And Jesus saith unto them, Even the same that I said unto you from the beginning. 

John 826  I have many things to say and to judge of you but he that sent me is true and I speak to the world those things which I have heard of him. 

John 827  They understood not that he spake to them of the Father. 

John 828  Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted up the Son of man, then shall ye know that I am he, and that I do nothing of myself but as my Father hath taught me, I speak these things. 

John 829  And he that sent me is with me the Father hath not left me alone for I do always those things that please him. 

John 830  As he spake these words, many believed on him. 

John 831  Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed 

John 832  And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. 

John 833  They answered him, We be Abraham's seed, and were never in bondage to any man how sayest thou, Ye shall be made free? 

John 834  Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin. 

John 835  And the servant abideth not in the house for ever but the Son abideth ever. 

John 836  If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed. 

John 837  I know that ye are Abraham's seed but ye seek to kill me, because my word hath no place in you. 

John 838  I speak that which I have seen with my Father and ye do that which ye have seen with your father. 

John 839  They answered and said unto him, Abraham is our father. Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham's children, ye would do the works of Abraham. 

John 840  But now ye seek to kill me, a man that hath told you the truth, which I have heard of God this did not Abraham. 

John 841  Ye do the deeds of your father. Then said they to him, We be not born of fornication we have one Father, even God. 

John 842  Jesus said unto them, If God were your Father, ye would love me for I proceeded forth and came from God neither came I of myself, but he sent me. 

John 843  Why do ye not understand my speech? even because ye cannot hear my word. 

John 844  Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own for he is a liar, and the father of it. 

John 845  And because I tell you the truth, ye believe me not. 

John 846  Which of you convinceth me of sin? And if I say the truth, why do ye not believe me? 

John 847  He that is of God heareth God's words ye therefore hear them not, because ye are not of God. 

John 848  Then answered the Jews, and said unto him, Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a devil? 

John 849  Jesus answered, I have not a devil but I honour my Father, and ye do dishonour me. 

John 850  And I seek not mine own glory there is one that seeketh and judgeth. 

John 851  Verily, verily, I say unto you, If a man keep my saying, he shall never see death. 

John 852  Then said the Jews unto him, Now we know that thou hast a devil. Abraham is dead, and the prophets and thou sayest, If a man keep my saying, he shall never taste of death. 

John 853  Art thou greater than our father Abraham, which is dead? and the prophets are dead whom makest thou thyself? 

John 854  Jesus answered, If I honour myself, my honour is nothing it is my Father that honoureth me of whom ye say, that he is your God 

John 855  Yet ye have not known him but I know him and if I should say, I know him not, I shall be a liar like unto you but I know him, and keep his saying. 

John 856  Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day and he saw it, and was glad. 

John 857  Then said the Jews unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham? 

John 858  Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I am. 

John 859  Then took they up stones to cast at him but Jesus hid himself, and went out of the temple, going through the midst of them, and so passed by. 

John 91  And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth. 

John 92  And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man, or his parents, that he was born blind? 

John 93  Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. 

John 94  I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day the night cometh, when no man can work. 

John 95  As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. 

John 96  When he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and he anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay, 

John 97  And said unto him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, (which is by interpretation, Sent.) He went his way therefore, and washed, and came seeing. 

John 98  The neighbours therefore, and they which before had seen him that he was blind, said, Is not this he that sat and begged? 

John 99  Some said, This is he others said, He is like him but he said, I am he. 

John 910  Therefore said they unto him, How were thine eyes opened? 

John 911  He answered and said, A man that is called Jesus made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and said unto me, Go to the pool of Siloam, and wash and I went and washed, and I received sight. 

John 912  Then said they unto him, Where is he? He said, I know not. 

John 913  They brought to the Pharisees him that aforetime was blind. 

John 914  And it was the sabbath day when Jesus made the clay, and opened his eyes. 

John 915  Then again the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight. He said unto them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and do see. 

John 916  Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man is not of God, because he keepeth not the sabbath day. Others said, How can a man that is a sinner do such miracles? And there was a division among them. 

John 917  They say unto the blind man again, What sayest thou of him, that he hath opened thine eyes? He said, He is a prophet. 

John 918  But the Jews did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind, and received his sight, until they called the parents of him that had received his sight. 

John 919  And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, who ye say was born blind? how then doth he now see? 

John 920  His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind 

John 921  But by what means he now seeth, we know not or who hath opened his eyes, we know not he is of age ask him he shall speak for himself. 

John 922  These words spake his parents, because they feared the Jews for the Jews had agreed already, that if any man did confess that he was Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue. 

John 923  Therefore said his parents, He is of age ask him. 

John 924  Then again called they the man that was blind, and said unto him, Give God the praise we know that this man is a sinner. 

John 925  He answered and said, Whether he be a sinner or no, I know not one thing I know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see. 

John 926  Then said they to him again, What did he to thee? how opened he thine eyes? 

John 927  He answered them, I have told you already, and ye did not hear wherefore would ye hear it again? will ye also be his disciples? 

John 928  Then they reviled him, and said, Thou art his disciple but we are Moses' disciples. 

John 929  We know that God spake unto Moses as for this fellow, we know not from whence he is. 

John 930  The man answered and said unto them, Why herein is a marvellous thing, that ye know not from whence he is, and yet he hath opened mine eyes. 

John 931  Now we know that God heareth not sinners but if any man be a worshipper of God, and doeth his will, him he heareth. 

John 932  Since the world began was it not heard that any man opened the eyes of one that was born blind. 

John 933  If this man were not of God, he could do nothing. 

John 934  They answered and said unto him, Thou wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out. 

John 935  Jesus heard that they had cast him out and when he had found him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God? 

John 936  He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him? 

John 937  And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee. 

John 938  And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him. 

John 939  And Jesus said, For judgment I am come into this world, that they which see not might see and that they which see might be made blind. 

John 940  And some of the Pharisees which were with him heard these words, and said unto him, Are we blind also? 

John 941  Jesus said unto them, If ye were blind, ye should have no sin but now ye say, We see therefore your sin remaineth. 
